PEEP SHOW is a transmedial time-based work for a performer, audio, video, light, objects and room that balances on the border between music piece, performance and installation. The work was developed as a part of the project WAHL PLATZ FREI (2019) by the group Mykoriza. PEEP SHOW was developed in close collaboration with flutist and performer Isabelle Raphaelis.

The work primarily deals with the relationship between (media) reality(ies) and the reality that must remain inaccessible to us behind the ideological curtain so that the logic of the global market can unfold without restraint and we - intoxicated and obedient - continue to consume.

PEEP SHOW is an art and network at the same time. The audience is surrounded by ten stations (plateaus) distributed in the space and can move freely. Each plateau consists of objects, sounds, images, videos and light. The materials come from everyday life, from our media landscape, from the internet and darknet: in the piece, the alleged harmlessness of the media world borders on the actual cruelty of the real one. The performer wanders from station to station, creating connections between the objects through her musical, physical and performative actions.

The spatial distribution of plateuas creates a polyphony not only of sounds, images and gestures, but also of the space itself. Delay structures and live audio recordings create a time structure of flash- and backforwards.

The objects are transformed and derived from each other, the contents appear in different media: Everything is connected to everything else. The objects of our reality are treated as if they were something other than what they are in reality. By creating multiple references, the piece becomes a complex poetic network, the nodes of which are the composed objects in corresponding media forms. The contents are constantly recontextualised. It is a permanent re-evaluation of what has already been perceived. One finds oneself in a pseudo-insoluble labyrinth: one almost knows what to expect at the end of the labyrinth, but one never reaches the desired goal. One wanders through the topology of the poetic graph, looking for an optimal path to the unambiguous meaning, but there is only variety!

The work explores and questions the relationships between objects from our media landscape, as well as our own relationship to it, our everyday perceptions and our media consumption. The piece is a search for reality. An attempt is made to reveal the ideological mechanisms of reality obfuscation. Can reality be experienced? Or is it kept hidden by our eyes and ears?

///

PEEP SHOW is a transmedial time-based work for a performer, audio, video, light, objects and room that balances on the border between music piece, performance and installation. The work was developed as a part of the project WAHL PLATZ FREI (2019) by the group Mykoriza. PEEP SHOW was developed in close collaboration with flutist and performer Isabelle Raphaelis.<br><br>The work primarily deals with the relationship between (media) reality(ies) and the reality that must remain inaccessible to us behind the ideological curtain so that the logic of the global market can unfold without restraint and we - intoxicated and obedient - continue to consume.<br><br>PEEP SHOW is an art and network at the same time. The audience is surrounded by ten stations (plateaus) distributed in the space and can move freely. Each plateau consists of objects, sounds, images, videos and light. The materials come from everyday life, from our media landscape, from the internet and darknet: in the piece, the alleged harmlessness of the media world borders on the actual cruelty of the real one. The performer wanders from station to station, creating connections between the objects through her musical, physical and performative actions.<br><br>The spatial distribution of plateuas creates a polyphony not only of sounds, images and gestures, but also of the space itself. Delay structures and live audio recordings create a time structure of flash- and backforwards.<br><br>The objects are transformed and derived from each other, the contents appear in different media: Everything is connected to everything else. The objects of our reality are treated as if they were something other than what they are in reality. By creating multiple references, the piece becomes a complex poetic network, the nodes of which are the composed objects in corresponding media forms. The contents are constantly recontextualised. It is a permanent re-evaluation of what has already been perceived. One finds oneself in a pseudo-insoluble labyrinth: one almost knows what to expect at the end of the labyrinth, but one never reaches the desired goal. One wanders through the topology of the poetic graph, looking for an optimal path to the unambiguous meaning, but there is only variety!<br><br>The work explores and questions the relationships between objects from our media landscape, as well as our own relationship to it, our everyday perceptions and our media consumption. The piece is a search for reality. An attempt is made to reveal the ideological mechanisms of reality obfuscation. Can reality be experienced? Or is it kept hidden by our eyes and ears?

