Hind Rajab (2017/2018 – 29 January 2024) was a six-year-old Palestinian girl from the Tel al-Hawa neighborhood in Gaza City who was killed by the Israeli military after being the sole survivor of Israeli tank fire on the vehicle in which she had fled with six relatives.

Rajab's family was fleeing the Tel al-Hawa neighborhood of Gaza City when an Israeli army tank shot at their vehicle, killing Rajab's aunt, uncle, and four cousins. The only other survivor at the time, Rajab's 15-year-old cousin, called the Palestinian Red Crescent Society (PRCS) for emergency aid in a recorded phone call, crying and screaming that Israeli forces were shooting at them amid the sound of gunfire before going silent when she was also killed.

This music is based on a nearly one-minute excerpt from the telephone conversation between Hind Rajab and PRCS dispatcher Rana al-Faqeh. During this minute, Rana al-Faqeh recited the opening surah of the Quran, which the girl repeated.

"Echo Chamber" consists of 11 parts, just as the dispatcher divided the opening surah into 11 parts (consisting originally of 7 āyahs) to make the sentences shorter. Each of the parts is divided in turn into 4 sections: 1 - corresponding to the dispatcher's line, 2 - to the subsequent pause, 3 - to the girl's repetition of the line, and 4 - to the following pause. The temporal structure of the original recording is projected onto the form of the piece.

The pitches are the result of spectral analysis of the phone call recording.
"Echo Chamber" is a slowed-down playback of the original recording, performed by the ensemble.

///

Ensemble New Babylon

Isabelle Raphaelis – Flute
Benjamin Fischer – Oboe
Nayoung Cheong – Clarinet
Samuel Stoll – Horn
Johannes von Buttlar – Percussion, Audio
Mireia Vendrell del Álamo – Piano, Audio
Marijke Tjoelker – Violin
Hannah Craib – Viola
Lynda Anne Cortis – Violoncello

Anton Vasilyev – Composition, Audio, Production

June 23, 2024
Universität Oldenburg

Commissioned by Ensemble New Babylon

///


