Production of new music usually takes place under rather totalitarian conditions: a composition is, among other things, a collection of rules that determine what the performers should do. A composition is imperative. In an even free improvisation, musicians are likewise not free, they only act within certain frameworks dictated, for example, by personal experience, space or choice of musical instruments.

The piece "Violince" consists of several goal-directed processes, whereby the musicians do not have the freedom to lead these processes in a new direction with each new performance; they do not co-compose, they only react to each other and feed these processes with sounds whose properties as well as the rules of communication are prescribed over further distances. In the piece, this lack of freedom is taken to an extreme: Communication gradually leaves the realm of the sonic and enters the realm of the ethical. The improvising musicians are placed in situations where they have to make certain decisions not for musical but for ethical reasons.

Composition commissioned by KLANK.


///

Production of new music usually takes place under rather totalitarian conditions: a composition is, among other things, a collection of rules that determine what the performers should do. A composition is imperative. In an even free improvisation, musicians are likewise not free, they only act within certain frameworks dictated, for example, by personal experience, space or choice of musical instruments.<br><br>The piece \"Violince\" consists of several goal-directed processes, whereby the musicians do not have the freedom to lead these processes in a new direction with each new performance; they do not co-compose, they only react to each other and feed these processes with sounds whose properties as well as the rules of communication are prescribed over further distances. In the piece, this lack of freedom is taken to an extreme: Communication gradually leaves the realm of the sonic and enters the realm of the ethical. The improvising musicians are placed in situations where they have to make certain decisions not for musical but for ethical reasons.<br><br>Composition commissioned by KLANK.